README.md, before:

# Arkanoid

## Description

This project is an implementation inspired by the classic Arkanoid game, developed in C++ using the Allegro graphics library. The game follows the Model-View-Controller (MVC) design pattern to separate responsibilities between game logic, rendering, and event control.

## Features

- Racket movement using the mouse
- Ball bouncing on various surfaces (bricks, walls, racket)
- Life management (3 lives at the start of each game)
- Score tracking with high score saving to a file
- Multiple levels encoded in `.txt` files
- Bricks of different colors awarding varying points
- Special bricks (silver and gold) with unique behaviors
- Game bonus on on some bricks

## Prerequisites

- C++17
- Allegro 5
- g++
- make
- cmake

## Installation

### On Debian-based systems

1. Install the required dependencies (g++, make, and Allegro)

    ```sh
    sudo apt install g++ make cmake liballegro5-dev
    ```

2. Compile the project

    ```sh
    make
    ```

### On Arch Linux

1. Install the required dependencies (g++, make, and Allegro)

    ```sh
    sudo pacman -S gcc make cmake allegro
    ```

2. Compile the project

    ```sh
    make
    ```

## Usage

To start the game, run the following command:

```sh
./arkanoid
```

## Game Controls

- `r` : Reset the high score to 0 (also saves to the file)
- `←` : Move to the previous level
- `→` : Move to the next level
- `a` : Reset the current level
- `q` : Quit the game

## Game Bonus

There are several bonuses available in the game. They will be displayed with
the letter `B` in the brick containing the bonus. You have to collect the
bonus with the racket. Here is a list of the different bonuses :

- Reduce the ball's speed
- Expand the racket's width
- Gain an extra life
- Split the ball into three instances of itself. When this bonus is
active, no other bonuses will drop

Commit message:

add lazer to rapport readme and do bonus pill ui

README.md, after:

# Arkanoid

## Description

This project is an implementation inspired by the classic Arkanoid game, developed in C++ using the Allegro graphics library. The game follows the Model-View-Controller (MVC) design pattern to separate responsibilities between game logic, rendering, and event control.

## Features

- Racket movement using the mouse
- Ball bouncing on various surfaces (bricks, walls, racket)
- Life management (3 lives at the start of each game)
- Score tracking with high score saving to a file
- Multiple levels encoded in `.txt` files
- Bricks of different colors awarding varying points
- Special bricks (silver and gold) with unique behaviors
- Game bonus on on some bricks

## Prerequisites

- C++17
- Allegro 5
- g++
- make
- cmake

## Installation

### On Debian-based systems

1. Install the required dependencies (g++, make, and Allegro)

    ```sh
    sudo apt install g++ make cmake liballegro5-dev
    ```

2. Compile the project

    ```sh
    make
    ```

### On Arch Linux

1. Install the required dependencies (g++, make, and Allegro)

    ```sh
    sudo pacman -S gcc make cmake allegro
    ```

2. Compile the project

    ```sh
    make
    ```

## Usage

To start the game, run the following command:

```sh
./arkanoid
```

## Game Controls

- `r` : Reset the high score to 0 (also saves to the file)
- `←` : Move to the previous level
- `→` : Move to the next level
- `a` : Reset the current level
- `q` : Quit the game
- `spacebar` : shoot a lazer when available

## Game Bonus

There are several bonuses available in the game. They will be displayed with
a letter inside the brick containing the bonus. You have to collect the
bonus with the racket. Here is a list of the different bonuses :

- Reduce the ball's speed
- Expand the racket's width
- Gain an extra life
- shoot a lazer
- Split the ball into three instances of itself. When this bonus is
active, no other bonuses will drop
